# 4. <a name="data-attributes"></a> Data attributes

Data grid leverages numerous data attributes to handle its functionalities. All data grid specific data attributes start with `data-grid-`.

Below is a list with all available data attributes:

### General

- `[data-grid-source]`    Sets the data source url, alternatively can be set through data grid initialization.
- `[data-grid-reset]`     Resets and refreshes the entire data grid. Can be added to any html element and will trigger on click.
- `[data-grid-download="_type"]`  Initiates a download request for the given type. `csv`, `json` and `pdf` are supported types. (requires the `cartalyst/data-grid-export` package)

### Layouts

- `[data-grid-layout="_layout"]`  Defines the layout wrapper and name.
- `[data-grid-template="_template"]`  Defines the template, the name should match the layout this template should render into.
- `[data-grid-switch-layout="_layout:_template"]` Switches the given layout to the given template.
- `[data-grid-layout-disabled]` Disables a layout.
- `[data-grid-action="append"]` Only required on infinite grid result templates, this instructs data grid to append markup instead of flushing the existing markup.

### Pagination

- `[data-grid-page="_page"]`  Navigates to the given page.

### Sorts

- `[data-grid-sort="_column"]` Toggles sorting based on the given column.

### Filters

- `[data-grid-group]`   Defines a group of filters, this is useful to force reset all group filters before applying a new filter from the same group. Filtering by year is a good example. Before filtering a new year, previous set filter should be removed.
- `[data-grid-reset-group]` Instructs filters belonging to this group to reset before a new filter is applied.
- `[data-grid-group="_group"]`  Defines a named group of filters, this is useful when the filter group has to be reset through an element that resides outside of this markup tree.
- `[data-grid-reset-group="_group"]`  Resets the given filter group.

- `[data-grid-reset-filter="_filter"]` Resets the given filter

- `[data-grid-filter="_filter"]`    Sets an element as a data grid filter.
- `[data-grid-label]` Sets the corresponding label that should appear on the applied filters.
- `[data-grid-query]` Sets the query that should run for the filter.

- `[data-grid-range]` Defines a range filter that has a starting and an ending fields. A classic example is a datepicker with a starting date, and another field with a picker for the ending date.
- `[data-grid-type=":type"]`  Required for alternative filter types, range is an example.
- `[data-grid-date]`  Indicates a field as a date so that values are handled using `moment.js`.
- `[data-grid-server-date-format]`  Defines the data grid server side date format (based on `moment.js`)
- `[data-grid-client-date-format]`  Defines the data grid client side date format (based on `moment.js`)

### Search

- `[data-grid-search]`  Defines the search form to be used for data grid.
- `[data-grid-operator]`  Defines the query operator the search should perform.
